docs/flow: add reference page for prometheus.integration.node_exporter component (#2165)
grafana/agent: docs/flow/reference/components/prometheus.integration.node_exporter.md

--------- | ------------------- | ----------- 
`targets` | `list(map(string))` | The targets where the `node_exporter` metrics are exposed to.

For example, the `targets` could either be passed to a `prometheus.relabel`
component to rewrite the metrics' label set, or to a `prometheus.scrape`
component that collects the exposed metrics.

## Component health

`prometheus.integrations.node_exporter` is only reported as unhealthy if given
an invalid configuration. In those cases, exported fields are kept at their
last healthy values.

## Debug information

`prometheus.relabel` does not expose any component-specific debug information.

## Debug metrics

`prometheus.relabel` does not expose any component-specific debug metrics.

## Collectors List
The following table lists the available collectors that node_exporter brings
bundled in. Some collectors may only work on specific operating systems;
enabling a collector that is not supported by the host OS where Flow is running
is a no-op.

Users can choose to enable a subset of collectors to limit the amount of
metrics exposed by the `prometheus.integrations.node_exporter` component,
or disable collectors that are expensive to run.

> | Name             | Description | OS | Enabled by default |

Reviewer: IMO the collector names here should probably be wrapped in backticks since they're expected to be placed verbatim in the config file.

---
aliases:
- /docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/prometheus.integration.node_exporter
title: prometheus.integration.node_exporter
---

# prometheus.integrations.node_exporter
The `prometheus.integrations.node_exporter` embeds 
[node_exporter](https://github.com/prometheus/node_exporter) which exposes a 
wide variety of hardware and OS metrics for \*nix-based systems.

The `node_exporter` itself is comprised of various _collectors_, which can be
enabled and disabled at will. For more information on collectors, refer to the
[`collectors-list`](#collectors-list) section.

The `prometheus.integrations.node_exporter` component is a _singleton_
component. That means that it can only appear once per configuration file, and

> a block label must not be passed to it.

Reviewer: Do we want to say "unique component" instead of "singleton component?" cc @mattdurham

Reviewer: I like that, that seems preferable over establishing a term

  targets    = prometheus.integrations.node_exporter.targets
  forward_to = [ /* ... */ ]
}
```

## Arguments
The following arguments can be used to configure the exporter's behavior.
All arguments are optional. Omitted fields take their default values.

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`set_collectors`           | `list(string)` | Overrides the default set of enabled collectors with the collectors listed. | | no
`enable_collectors`        | `list(string)` | Collectors to mark as enabled.  | | no
`disable_collectors`       | `list(string)` | Collectors to mark as disabled. | | no
`include_exporter_metrics` | `boolean`      | Whether metrics about the exporter itself should be reported. | false | no 
`procfs_path`              | `string`       | The procfs mountpoint. | `/proc` | no
`sysfs_path`               | `string`       | The sysfs mountpoint.  | `/sys`   | no
`rootfs_path`              | `string`       | Specify a prefix for accessing the host filesystem. | `/` | no

`set_collectors` defines a hand-picked list of enabled-by-default
collectors. If set, anything not provided in that list is disabled by

> default.

Reviewer: Can we link to the bottom of the page so people know which collectors are enabled by default for their system?

```markdown
See [Collectors list](#collectors-list) for the default set of enabled collectors for each supported system. 
```

### `powersupply` block
name | type | description | default | required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`ignored_supplies` | `string` | Regexp of power supplies to ignore for the powersupplyclass collector. | `"^$"` | no

### `runit` block
name | type | description | default | required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`service_dir` | `string` | Path to runit service directory. | `"/etc/service"` | no

### `supervisord` block
name | type | description | default | required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`url` | `string` | XML RPC endpoint for the supervisord collector. | `"http://localhost:9001/RPC2"` | no

Setting `SUPERVISORD_URL` in the environment overrides the default value.
An explicit value in the YAML config takes precedence over the environment
variable.

### `systemd` block
name | type | description | default | required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`enable_restarts` | `boolean` | Enables service unit metric `service_restart_total` | false | no
`start_time`      | `boolean` | Enables service unit metric `unit_start_time_seconds` | false | no

> `task_metrics`    | `boolean` | Enables service unit tasks metrics `unit_tasks_current` and `unit_tasks_max.` | false | no

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`task_metrics`    | `boolean` | Enables service unit task metrics `unit_tasks_current` and `unit_tasks_max.` | false | no
```

`unit_exclude`    | `string`  | Regexp of systemd units to exclude. Units must both match include and not match exclude to be collected. | `".+\\.(automount\|device\|mount\|scope\|slice)"` | no
`unit_include`    | `string`  | Regexp of systemd units to include. Units must both match include and not match exclude to be collected. | `".+"` | no

### `tapestats` block
name | type | description | default | required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`ignored_devices` | `string` | Regexp of tapestats devices to ignore. | `"^$"` | no

### `textfile` block
name | type | description | default | required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`textfile_directory` | `string` | Directory to read `*.prom` files from for the textfile collector. |  | no

### `vmstat` block
name | type | description | default | required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`fields` | `string` | Regexp of fields to return for the vmstat collector. | `"^(oom_kill\|pgpg\|pswp\|pg.*fault).*"` | no

## Exported fields
The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components.

Name      | Type                | Description 
--------- | ------------------- | ----------- 

> `targets` | `list(map(string))` | The targets where the `node_exporter` metrics are exposed to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`targets` | `list(map(string))` | The targets that can be used to collect `node_exporter` metrics.
```

For example, the `targets` could either be passed to a `prometheus.relabel`
component to rewrite the metrics' label set, or to a `prometheus.scrape`
component that collects the exposed metrics.

## Component health

`prometheus.integrations.node_exporter` is only reported as unhealthy if given

> an invalid configuration. In those cases, exported fields are kept at their

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
an invalid configuration. In those cases, exported fields retain their
```

last healthy values.

## Debug information

`prometheus.integrations.node_exporter` does not expose any component-specific
debug information.

## Debug metrics

`prometheus.integrations.node_exporter` does not expose any component-specific
debug metrics.

> ## Collectors List

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Collectors list
```

> The following table lists the available collectors that node_exporter brings

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following table lists the available collectors that `node_exporter` brings
```

| `powersupplyclass` | Collects information on power supplies. | any | yes |
| `pressure`         | Exposes pressure stall statistics from `/proc/pressure/`. | Linux (kernel 4.20+ and/or CONFIG_PSI) | yes |
| `processes`        | Exposes aggregate process statistics from /proc. | Linux | no |
| `qdisc`            | Exposes queuing discipline statistics. | Linux | no |
| `rapl`             | Exposes various statistics from `/sys/class/powercap`. | Linux | yes |
| `runit`            | Exposes service status from runit. | any | no |
| `schedstat`        | Exposes task scheduler statistics from `/proc/schedstat`. | Linux | yes |
| `sockstat`         | Exposes various statistics from `/proc/net/sockstat`. | Linux | yes |
| `softnet`          | Exposes statistics from `/proc/net/softnet_stat`. | Linux | yes |
| `stat`             | Exposes various statistics from `/proc/stat`. This includes boot time, forks and interrupts. | Linux | yes |
| `supervisord`      | Exposes service status from supervisord. | any | no |
| `systemd`          | Exposes service and system status from systemd. | Linux | no |
| `tapestats`        | Exposes tape device stats. | Linux | yes |

> | `tcpstat`          | Exposes TCP connection status information from `/proc/net/tcp` and `/proc/net/tcp6`. (Warning: the current version has potential performance issues in high load situations). | Linux | no |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `tcpstat`          | Exposes TCP connection status information from `/proc/net/tcp` and `/proc/net/tcp6`. (Warning: The current version has potential performance issues in high load situations.) | Linux | no |
```
